---
layout: post
title: CentOS
subtitle: inflearn course
categories: Inflearn
tags: [system_engineer,linux,centos7,command]
---
  
2023/01/31 Red Hat CentOS7 Linux Server & Network course.  
  
# CentOS  
  
No difference to Ubuntu.(kernel, command)  
  
How to change GUI Mode 
* Ubuntu  
`install gnome desktop` -> `startx`  
* CentOS  
`install gnome-Desktop` -> default userlevel is 2(multi-user textmode) -> systemctl set userlevel5(graphical mode)  
  
| userlevel | mode |
| ----: | ---------: |
|userlevel 0 | poweroff mode|
|userlevel 1 | secure mode(single-user)|
|userlevel 2 | not used|
|userlevel 3 | multi-user text mode|
|userlevel 4 | not used|
|userlevel 5 | graphic mode|  
----
## Package Manager

extension: `.rpm` -> same to `.exe` of windows  
package name form: `[package name-package version-release number-OS-architecture(x86_64).rpm]  
  
---
### RPM(Redhat Package Manager)  
* install  
`rpm -Uvh *.rpm`  
* remove  
`rpm -e *.rpm`  
* check installtation  
`rpm -qa *`  
  
* Package dependencies problems.  
* Don't need to connect to network.  
* Need package files.  
* Same to `dpkg` of Ubuntu.  
  
---
### YUM  
* install  
`yum install *`  
* remove  
`yum remove *`  
* check installation  
`yum info *`  
* local package install  
`yum localinstall *`  
  
* Don't has dependency problems.  
* Need to connect to network.  
* Don't need package files. 
* Same to `apt` of Ubuntu.  

----
 ### Thoughts about package manager
 Informations about package manager when i learned the last project.  
   
* Sometimes, need to install specific libralies, but they have dependencies problems. At that time, there is packages version problems.  
  
In Ubuntu using `apt`,
1. If there is package files in the present directory, install the local package files.  
2. If the package files has defferent directory to the present directory, install the local packes files.  
3. If there is the package information in /etc/repository file, install the package of the version.  
  

In CentOS using `yum`,  
`yum` has `localinstall` command, I think they don't have the problems.  
  
---
### file compression
Same to Ubuntu, use `xz` or `bzip`.  
  
### command
nslookup: command to check that DNS runs well.  
  
### SELinux(Security Enhanced Linux)
It's made to protect the linux that weak about security.  
  
### Process  
Process is simillar to Program.  
`ps -elf` is the command to search all process.  
`pstree` is the command to check parent-child process.  
When run some program add `&` command to the end, the program run as background program.  

### Service
provided independently of the system. `systemctl start/stop`  
### Socket
Run when the outside request some command. It's managed the files in the direcotry `/usr/lib/systemd/system`  
### BootLoader grub  
Can change boot information.  
Kernel version or Name, description, etc.  