---
layout: post
title: IS-IVR solution
subtitle: AICC1 & IS-IVR
categories: freshman training
tags: [network,ivr]
---
  
2023/01/06 Freshman Training of Hansol Inticube.  
Instructor is **김지민**.  
  
# IS-IVR  

IS-IVR is hansol's solution like avaya and genesys.  
Languages are Java, C++.  
  
* OAMP : Like previous tracking web site. 1 per office.  
  
# IS-HMP
  
IS-HMP is a solution maintance.  
Languages are C++, Java, Python.  
  
# IVR
  
IVR is similar to ARS.  
Simply, IVR is developemnt of ARS.  
The differences is that ARS doesn't have exclude system, but IVR has that.  
And IVR could provides customer self service and sned an important informations.  
Original IVR(ARS) has a limit that doesn't have visuzlizer thing. So it's to become visualizer ARS(IVR with WEB).  
  
* DTMF(Dual Tone Multiple Frequency)
* Signal that communicate withing call centers.  
  
# WEB ARS
  
IVR and web ticks, so if user take off the call user couldn't use the service.  
  
# Digital ARS
  
IVR + Digital Channel.  
It could be service the service only.  
  
* On-premise vs Off-premise(Cloud)
* On-premise is to place the server on office. Off-premise is to have remote server.  
  
## IS-IVR
  
IS-IVR = IVR + OAMP  
  
* Scenario Designer: Provide as program. Other solution(genesys, avaya) provide also scenario designer but that's not program.  
  
IVR server must be more than 2. Because some matter could be exist. And region also.  
  
# IS-IVR advatage
  
**Customizing & Flexibility**.  
* Provides various OS.  
* Provicdes customer that they requires.  
  
* Manage holiday. (Genesys doesn't.)  
* Log Viewer. (Genesys provide SIP log and CTI log separately, but it doesn't.)  
  
# IS-HMP

**Egnine**  

# AICC solution
  
1. 음성봇(VGW, STT, TTS, SOE, ISE)  
2. 챗봇 <-3rd  
3. TA <-3rd  
4. 상담사 어시스턴트 <- 3rd  
(고객 녹취)  
5. 상담사 script play(보험안내같은 것을 tts를 이용해서 읽게해줘.)  