---
layout: post
title: AICC2 course
subtitle: important of OS, DB
categories: AICC
tags: [AICC]
---
  
2023/02/22 first Linux & Network course.  
The instructor is 추한승.  
  
-----
## MTU
MTU(Maximum Transmission Unit)  
unit: byte  
Windows  
```
netsh interface ip show interface
```
  
Linux  
```
ifconfig
```
  
## hosts
The computer file that use host name mapping ip address by OS.  
Windows: `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc`  
Linux: `/etc`  
  
## top
top(table of processers)  
Present the information about CPU & memory usage.  
top vs htop  
top: present the whole CPU usage of all CPU.  
htop: present the each CPU usage.  
  
## df
df(disk free)  
Present the current disk usage.  
  
## telnet
Not use in nowdays.  
  
## ssh
ssh(Secure Shell)  
The Protocol that login to other computer on network, run commands on remote system or copy files to other system.  
  
## arp/rarp
ARP(Address Resolution Protocol)  
The protocol that use to bind the ip address to phisical address.  
Windows: `arp -a`  
  
## ftp
FTP(File Transfer Protocol)  
Protocol that has TCP/IP protocol and to send files between server and client.  
Windows: `ftp 10.1.14.175`  
  
sftp(SSH File Transfer Protocol / Secure File Transfer Protocol)  
The Protocl that provide file access, file trasfer, file management through data stream.  
  
## port
Port is the logical connect place.  
Each process has specific port.  
  
## netstat
Necstat is the tool that presents statistics information of network access, routing table, network interface.  
Windows: `netstat`  
  
If user use oracle listener, the result of netstat is `1521` port is in use.  
  
# Apache / Tomcat
## Apache
Web Server  
Process the static data.  
## Tomcat
Web Container  
Process the dynamic data.  
  
# Oracle Listener
Oracle network manager to connect clients to oracle DB using network.  
Oracle DB must need Oracle Listener.  
  
# VoiceXML
VoiceXML(Voice Extensible Markup Language)  
Main Goal: to bring the advantage the web development and deliver contents about voice response application. to free author the low-level development and resource management.  
  
feature  
- Grammer like HTML.  
- Separate user interation code to service logic.  
- formal language.  
- Easy to use simple interation and difficult interation.  
  
Scope
- voice input & output  
- DTMF input  
- voice call  
- recording  
- connecto to other voice interface(move to other VXML page)  
- DB connection(send query & process the result)  
  
## VXML Architecture
#TODO: upload architecture image